This is going to be a optional video, 100% optional.
So if you just want to stay focused on the topic at hand, pause the video right now and continue on.
Otherwise, stick around and I'll tell you what we're going to discuss in this video.
So I want you to notice how between our ticket service and the order service, we use that exact same
module to manage all that versioning stuff.
So we made use in both services.
Of that module called Mongoose Update if current.
Now, to be honest with you, that was kind of cheating.
We are kind of cheating by using this module inside of both these different services.
Let me tell you why.
By using this service or that module, we are able to assume that this orders database right here in
all the tickets inside of it are essentially going to manage themselves.
So in other words, whenever we have some incoming event, come in.
We're going to go through that process of subtracting the version number to find the appropriate record.
We then apply some updates to that record.
And then specifically, the real gotcha here is that this module, when we save the updated ticket,
it is going to take the version number right here already inside of our database and increment it by
one.
So that module alone is responsible for updating the version number inside of our orders database right
now.
Is that a bad thing?
Well, I would argue, yes, it is.
And here's why.
Right now, we are 100% aware of where these events are coming from.
We know they are coming from the ticket service and we know exactly how the version numbers work inside
that ticket service.
We know that they start off at zero and they are incremented by one every single time.
So we are able to make use of the mongoose update if current module inside the order service just because
it matches the exact same versioning semantics as the ticket service.
But there might be some kind of scenario out there at some future point in time where these ticket updated
events are coming from a totally different kind of database.
Maybe it's not a mongo database.
Maybe it's something that doesn't use Mongoose.
It might be a totally different kind of information store.
And with these other kinds of information stores, we cannot necessarily always rely on them using the
exact same versioning semantics as this mongoose mongoose update if current module.
So inside of some alternate universe, we might have these events coming in from some other part of
our application we don't really know, and they still might look identical.
So they're still ticket created, ticket updated, tick up, ticket updated.
But they might have an entirely different schema for applying versioning numbers.
So they might start off with a version number of 100 and then increment by 100 for every successive
version.
And if that was the case, we could definitely not make use of this very easy to use module inside of
our order service because it is always assuming that our versioning starts off at zero and increments
by one every single time an update is issued.
Besides having this very different kind of versioning, where we start off at 100 increment by 100 every
single time, there might be some other database that's emitting these events or some other service
that's emitting these events.
And they might use a version that is a timestamp to indicate when this record was saved.
And so once again, maybe that time stamp doesn't work too well with the Mongoose plugin we are using
the mongoose plug in we are using does technically support time stamps, but let's imagine for whatever
reason, these time stamps are not interoperable.
For some reason.
Who knows?
I don't know.
The point here is that we are kind of cheating by allowing all these version numbers inside the orders
database to just be managed by that plugin.
So the goal of this video, what I want to do, I want to try to remove that plugin from the orders
service and I want to show you how we could implement all the same versioning kind of stuff and manage
the version numbers, increment the version numbers on our own rather than relying upon the module that
we installed.
So that's the goal of this video.
So if that doesn't sound interesting, no problem.
Just pause video, skip on ahead.
Just, you know, we are going to revert all the changes we're going to make in this video.
So this is solely for informational purposes, just to understand that we are not really tightly coupled
to this versioning module that we just installed yet.
So with all that in mind, the first thing we have to do.
To somehow replace this plug in is understand what it actually does.
So there's really two primary goals of that plug in right now.
Here's what it really does.
So it's going to update the version number by one on records before they get saved.
That's step number one.
That's the first thing it does.
The second thing that it really does is it customizes the find and update operation.
So remember, that's when we actually save a record.
When we save a record.
Mongoose is going to make that request over to Mongo and it's going to say not only try to find some
record with this ID and update it, this module is also going to modify that query and change it into
find a record with this ID and this particular version number and update it.
So that's the two things that this module is really doing for us.
So these are the two behaviors that we need to somehow replace, so to speak.
We're going to first focus on step number one.
How are we going to somehow make sure that this version number can somehow get updated or whatever it
is without having to rely on this module?
Well, for that.
I'm going to go back over to my listener.
So inside the listener, at some point in time, we take some information out of this incoming event,
set it on our ticket, and then save it.
There is technically another piece of information on this data object, the version property.
So the version that is contained inside the event is what we want to update our local ticket to have.
Remember, that was super key and all these flow diagrams.
So we went through back over here every single time we had said that we were going to say process this
event, we were going to find the appropriate record inside the database by taking that version right
there, subtracting one, and then finding the appropriate record.
We would find this record right here.
We would then update the price and then update the version on this thing to really not just incremented
by one, but really what we're doing here is incrementing it to be equal to the version inside of this
event.
And so right now we are able to rely upon that plugin because it's going to increment by one for us
automatically, which is really what we want.
But again, what if this was a totally discontinuous version number?
What if it was incrementing by 100 or something like that?
Well, then we would have to somehow jump in and extract that version number and assign it to our record
inside the database.
So we would take three.
Not just because we are taking two plus one, but we would assign version three specifically because
that is what is inside this event right here.
So how we can reflect that inside of our code when we pull off some data from or some information from
that data object and then set it on our document and save it.
We could also just pull off the version, assign it to our document.
And that's it.
So this now achieves the exact same thing that that plugin was doing for us.
But now we are no longer coupled to this plug ins understanding of how these version numbers increment.
Instead, we are using the precise version that was included inside of this data object.
So now inside that data object, we could potentially have.
Version numbers like this right here where they are incremented by 100 every single time, or we could
potentially have timestamps.
It really doesn't matter.
We're just saying take whatever this new version number is inside this event, assign it to our record
and save it, because now that is the current version.
That can solve step number one right here.
As easy as that was, we're just copying over that one property and that kind of handles this idea of
updating that version number.
So now step number two, we need to make sure that when we reach into our database to save this record,
we need to somehow customize the query that is used.
So this is where life gets just a little bit more challenging.
I want to first show you some documentation over on Mongoose on how we can essentially inject something
to customize this update operation.
Now, just, you know, the mongoose documentation is not the best in the world.
In addition, the TypeScript type definition file that we are using is also not really going to show
us some information about this feature that I'm going to show you as well.
So this is where we're going to get a little bit hacky, so to speak, just so you know.
So if you take a look at the Mongoose documentation, we can see that on the model class, there's technically
a dollar sign where property.
And we can modify this dollar sign where property and this will attach some additional properties to
the query that is executed when calling save and when is new is false.
So in other words, long story short, this does exactly what that module does or what this update if
current plugin does.
This can allow us to kind of inject some additional criteria on the query that is issued when we try
to update a record.
So this is where we can add in some additional step and say, hey, we don't only want to find the record
with the correct ID, we also want to find some correct record with the correct version and then update
that record.
So this property right here is essentially how we would kind of override or add in some additional query
properties.
Now, the reason I mentioned that the documentation is not great and that the type definition file is
not great, is that understanding how to actually set this thing is a little bit challenging.
So again, this is where life is going to get just a little bit hacky, but let's just write out the
code and see where it goes.
So back inside of my ticket muddle definition file.
So this again is inside the order service.
So inside of order service models tickets.
I'm going to scroll down.
Right after we set our ticket schema.
And the plug in.
While I'm here, I'm going to comment out the plugin so that we're not using this thing at all anymore.
So now we're kind of on our own, right?
We have to make sure that whenever we try to write some record to the database, we are writing to the
correct record or the record with the right ID and the right version.
So right after that, we're going to set up a pre save hook.
Three, not preve.
So this is a middleware that's going to run any time that we try to save a record.
We're going to make sure that we provide a function with the function keyword because like many other
middleware in Mongoose, the value of the document that we're trying to save is available inside this
function as this.
And if we used an arrow function here that would override the value of this inside the function, and
all of a sudden things would not work as expected.
We must make use of the function keyword.
Also, remember that this function is going to receive a single argument of done.
This is a callback function that we have to manually invoke once we've done everything we intend to
do inside of this this middleware.
My apologies.
They're back over here.
So inside of here, we are going to dynamically or kind of on the fly or reassign that dollar sign where
property and we're going to put in some additional criteria on the save operation in how Mongoose is
going to find the record to actually overwrite or update inside of MongoDB.
We're going to say this dollar sign where?
Is going to be an object.
We're going to set version equal to whatever the current version is, minus one.
So we'll say this target version.
Minus one.
And then right after that, I'm going to call Dunn.
And you're going to notice that we get an error right here on Dollar Sign, where if I mouse over,
it's going to say that a document does not have a dollar sign where property.
So this is where the typescript type definition file for mongoose falls a little bit short.
It doesn't understand that this property exists.
So this is something that's kind of erroneous on TypeScript side.
TypeScript just doesn't quite understand what's going on here.
So this is another scenario where we're going to tell TypeScript, hey, just don't sweat it.
We know what we're doing here.
I'm going to put in a ignore like so.
Just to get that air to go away.
So what is this going to do?
Well, it can do the exact same thing.
Do we saw it in many of those different diagrams.
When we reach out to MongoDB to save this record, we're not only going to say try to find a record
with some appropriate ID, but also a version equal to the current version minus one.
Now the minus one right here once again makes a really big assumption.
It assumes that we are incrementing all these version numbers by one every single time.
So if you were in a scenario.
Where the version numbers were, say, being invented by 100.
This is where to find the previous version, the one that we are trying to reach into our database and
update.
This is where we would change this -1 to -100 or whatever else.
So this function right here is pretty much where we get the ability to kind of modify how the version
is being changed over time.
But in this case we actually are incrementing the version number by one.
So we would put in simply minus one right here.
And believe it or not, that is it.
We now do not need that plug in anymore.
So now to test this out, I'm going to save this file and I'm going to save the listener.
And then we're going to attempt to create a new ticket and then we'll update it once or twice.
And we're going to see that.
Well, everything still works as expected.
So I'm going to go back over to Postman.
There we go in postman.
I'm going to create yet another ticket.
So I got my post tap here to API tickets to get created.
I'll then take the idea that ticket that was just created go to my put tab.
So making input requests to API tickets and I'll paste in my ID for the ticket I just made and then
I'll update the price on this 1 to 500.
I'm going to send that off.
I'm going to go over to my terminal scaffold once again and just make sure that I don't get any errors.
So it looks like everything's still worked as expected.
That version query is still working, even though we're not using that plug in.
And now if I wanted to, I could make yet another price change right here.
Let's say go to 2000, send that off.
Go back over to scaffold.
Yep.
Looks like it still works as well and we no longer have any reliance upon that outside module.
And so, like I said, we can't update all these version numbers on the fly to fit the schema of version
numbers being used by this outside service, which we might not actually have control over.
Now last thing I want mention here is that although I am not receiving any errors, you still might
not believe that all the data is being saved correctly.
So as a last little step, let's figure out how to reach directly into our orders service database.
We're going to figure out how to reach directly in there, take a look at the tickets collection and
just make sure that these this ticket is being saved with the appropriate ID.
So to reach into the orders service and look at some information inside of it, we're going to open
up a new tab inside of our terminal.
We're going to do a little get pods and we're going to find the pod that is running our orders.
MongoDB instance to mine.
Yours is going to be named very similar to mine.
It'll be orders MongoDB people and then some long ID after it.
We're going to copy that name and then we'll execute CTL.
Dash it.
Then the pod name and then Mongo at the very end.
So this is going to execute the command Mongo inside the container inside this pod.
And that is what is going to open up the mongo shell where we can then start to run some queries directly
against the MongoDB database.
And I misspelt ctl.
Excuse me.
I missed the actual command inside of here.
That was my mistake.
I.T. exec or exec I.T.?
There we go.
Then the name.
Then Mongo.
My mistake.
That's better.
Okay.
So once I run that, I now have my mongo shell and I can start to run some commands against my mongo
database.
Now we are going to have to do one or two little administrative commands inside of here.
We're going to first list all the DB's that exist inside this database.
So there's our orders database.
That's what we want to actually connect to and run some queries inside of.
So we'll write out use orders.
And now we can write out DB tickets and that will access the tickets collection inside the order database.
So again, the entire idea here is I want to try to find the ticket.
We had just created a moment ago and update it twice and just make sure that it has the appropriate
version number, price and so on.
Make sure all this stuff is actually being saved correctly.
So to do so I could run DB tickets dot find.
And I'm going to try to find a ticket with a price equal to whatever you had last set inside of here.
So for me, it's a price of 2000.
I'll run that and then I'll see all the tickets that match that particular price.
If you get too many records right here, just make one more update to your ticket.
Give it a very unique price.
Maybe something like 1982.3.
I don't know.
Send off that update.
And now that you've got a much more unique price, you can run that query again.
With 1982.3.
So we'll see now inside of here that we've got the version all set up correctly.
It has been incremented by one every single time.
And, well, it's got the exact same functionality, more or less as the module that we had been using
previously.
The update if current plugin.
That's pretty much it.
That is how we would implement this stuff on our own if we were using some kind of versioning schema
that was not the same as the one that is assumed by this plugin.
Again, this is most relevant if you're starting to get some events from some other service that uses
a very different kind of database or maybe maybe it's not even using versions in the hundreds.
I don't know of any database that does anything even remotely like that.
I just want you to know that this was an option.
What might be actually kind of relevant or appropriate is if there's some other versioning system where
they don't start at versions of zero, maybe the first version as the version of one.
Instead, that would have a different schema for versioning than this plugin and potentially things
could start to break.
Okay.
So enough talking.
Again, this is just kind of optional stuff just for something for you to know on the side.
I am going to undo all the changes.
We are going to stick with this plug in.
Not the best assumption, not the best thing to use.
Like I said, we're kind of cheating here.
Nonetheless, I'm going to make use of it nonetheless.
So I'm going to delete the middleware that is put together.
I'm going to uncomment the plug in.
I don't think there are any other changes we made inside of here.
So I'm going to save this file.
I'll then go back over to the listener and no longer are we going to copy that version number over.
So I'll delete where we were pulling version off data and make sure I do not set it on the ticket anymore.
So I'm going to save this and then I'm going to go and make one last test inside of Postman.
Just make sure everything still works as expected.
I'll change my price this time to how about 103.3?
Send that off.
I'm now onto version four and so go run a quick query inside of MongoDB once again.
103.3.
Yep.
Version four.
Fantastic.
So we just swapped back over to that plug in and everything still worked as expected.
Pretty awesome.
Yeah.
So again, just option a little video.
Hope you enjoyed it.
Let's take a pause right here and continue with our app in just a moment.